VOCABULARY LIST 
Business English Certificate (BEC)
Preliminary 
BEC Preliminary Wordlist 
© UCLES 2006 Introduction to the BEC Preliminary Wordlist 
The BEC Preliminary Wordlist gives teachers a guide to the vocabulary needed when preparing students 
for the BEC Preliminary examination. 
Background to the list 
The BEC Preliminary Vocabulary list was originally developed by Cambridge ESOL in consultation with 
external consultants to guide item writers who produce materials for the BEC Preliminary examination. It 
includes vocabulary from the Council of Europe’s Threshold (1990) specification and business-related 
vocabulary which corpus evidence shows is high frequency. 
The list covers vocabulary appropriate to this level of English and includes receptive vocabulary (words 
that the candidate is expected to understand but which is not the focus of a question), and productive 
vocabulary (words that the candidate needs to know to answer a question). 
The list does not provide an exhaustive list of all words which appear on BEC Preliminary question 
papers and candidates should not confine their study of vocabulary to the list alone. 
How the list is updated 
Usage of business language can change rapidly, as shown by the growth of email correspondence and 
associated vocabulary in the last ten years. In order to maintain its currency, the wordlist is updated on 
an annual basis by the addition and removal of words, using a corpus-based approach. Suggested 
additions to the wordlist are collated and the frequency of these words is obtained by reference to 
established corpora (electronic databases). The corpora in question represent receptive and productive 
language in business and general contexts. The main corpora used for the validation of the BEC 
Preliminary wordlist are: 
• the Cambridge Learner corpus (CLC) which includes over 20 million words of written learner 
English at six levels; 
• the British National Corpus (BNC) which includes 100 million words of written and spoken native 
speaker data, including four million business-oriented words; 
• a web-derived corpus of business-related articles which includes 120,000 words from US and UK 
business articles. 
How the list is organised 
• Word sets 
Some categories of words which a learner at this level might be expected to know are not 
included in the alphabetical list but appear separately in Appendix 1. These include word sets 
such as numbers; days of the week; months of the year; countries and languages. 
• Exemplification 
Example phrases and sentences are given only where words which can be used with different 
meanings have been restricted in the extent of their usage at BEC Preliminary level. For 
example, trust is exemplified as it will only be used on a BEC Preliminary paper with the meaning 
of having confidence in someone or something, and not with the meaning of a financial 
arrangement (such as trust fund or trust unit). 
• Prefixes and suffixes 
A list of possible prefixes and suffixes is provided in Appendix 2 and these may be combined with 
the vocabulary items in the list as appropriate. Unemployment, for example, is not included on 
the alphabetical list, as it is formed from a word on the list – employ – in combination with two of 
the allowable affixes – un and ment. 
BEC Preliminary Wordlist 2
© UCLES 2006Words with an affix which is not included in the appendix appear within the alphabetical list. 
Reliability, for example, is listed, as the suffix – ity is not included in Appendix 2, as it is 
considered to be difficult for this level. 
• Compound words 
Compound words are not included in the list where both individual words are present and where 
the meaning of the compound is literal and transparent, eg businessman. A similar approach has 
been adopted for two-word and hyphenated compounds, for example, leisure centre and handmade. 
• Multi-word verbs 
Multi-word verbs are not included in the list if they have a literal meaning and are composed of 
verbs and particles already in the list. Examples of literal multi-word verbs are come into and sit
down. If the meaning of the verb is not transparent, eg put through, get along, the verb is listed 
and an example of usage given. 
• Topic Lists 
As Business English is considered to be a domain in itself, there are no separate topic lists for 
BEC Preliminary. 
Personal Vocabulary
The content of the BEC Preliminary wordlist is unlikely to cover completely the productive vocabulary that 
may be required by all candidates. Candidates should know the specific lexis they will need to describe 
themselves, their lives and their work. 
Abbreviations 
Abbreviations used in the Vocabulary List are: 
abbrev abbreviation or acronym 
adj adjective 
adv adverb 
Am Eng American English 
Br Eng British English 
conj conjunction 
det determiner 
exclam exclamation 
int interjection 
n noun 
phr v phrasal verb 
pl plural 
prep preposition 
prep phr prepositional phrase 
pron pronoun 
sing singular 
v verb
Summary of points to be noted 
• The list does not include every word that may appear on a BEC Preliminary paper. 
• The list covers receptive and productive vocabulary. 
• Prefixes and suffixes used at this level appear in an appendix. 
BEC Preliminary Wordlist 3
© UCLES 2006A 



BEC Preliminary Wordlist 40 
© UCLES 2006Appendix 1
Word sets
In addition to the words in the alphabetical list, BEC Preliminary candidates are expected to 
know: 
Cardinal numbers 
one, two, three, etc. 
Ordinal numbers 
first, second, third, fourth, etc. 
Days of the week 
Monday, Tuesday, etc. 
Seasons of the year 
spring, summer, autumn, winter. 
Countries, languages and nationalities 
Names of the countries, nationalities and languages, for example: Brazil/Brazilian; 
Canada/Canadian; China/Chinese; France/French; Ireland/Irish; India/Indian; Italy/Italian; 
Spain/Spanish, etc. 
Continents / Oceans 
Africa, North America, South America, Asia, Antartica, Europe, Atlantic, Pacific. 
BEC Preliminary Wordlist 41 
© UCLES 2006Appendix 2
Affixes
The words in the alphabetical list may be extended by the use of one or more of these 
affixes: 
mini- with nouns, sometimes without a hyphen, e.g. minibus, mini-tour
non- with nouns and adjectives, e.g. non-essential
re- with verbs and their related nouns, usually without a hyphen, e.g. rename, 
renaming
self- with nouns and adjectives, e.g. self-importance, self-confident
un- negative prefix, e.g. unsafe
-able with verbs, to form adjectives, e.g. affordable 
-ed (-d) with verbs, to form adjectives, e.g. limited, used 
-er (-r) with verbs, to form nouns, e.g. teacher, advertiser, shopper, also comparative 
forms, e.g. brighter 
-ese for nationalities/languages, e.g. Japanese 
-ess referring to a woman or female animal, e.g. princess, lioness 
N.B. it is less common to refer to women in this way nowadays, and 
usually safer to use the ‘standard’ form e.g. actor, author 
-est superlative forms, e.g. tallest 
-ful with nouns, for amount contained, e.g. spoonful; with nouns to form adjectives 
denoting characteristics or qualities, e.g. painful, peaceful 
-ing with verbs, for activity or state, e.g. reading, frightening
-ish for nationalities or languages, e.g. Swedish; with nouns to form adjectives, 
e.g. childish 
-ist with nouns, occupations, e.g. novelist, guitarist 
-less with nouns to form adjectives, e.g. breathless 
-ly with adjectives to form adverbs, e.g. seriously; with nouns to form adjectives, 
e.g. friendly 
-ment with verbs to form nouns, e.g. enjoyment 
-or with verbs to form nouns, for people, e.g. inventor 
-y with nouns to form adjectives, e.g. sunny 
BEC Preliminary Wordlist 42 
© UCLES 2006